dear diary with each passing day without
Innovation from nvidia's board Partners
I cry a little no I cry a lot remember
the good times we had together when they
were the first company to add
asymmetrical cooling to the mx440 or put
heat pipes on the GeForce 4 TI
4600 remember when they let you update
your bios without a CPU installed I just
missed them so much why why did you have
to leave us I don't care if some of your
Innovations never took off like the red
colored GPU that was $50 more because it
was red I just want you
back ah box of graphics cards oh EVGA
how did you know I would build this
computer with all the super cool stuff
you don't make anymore and how did you
know I would tell the people about our
sponsor you green their new 13 in1 Revo
doc Max 213 has more ports than seconds
in this ad and with an upgraded cooling
system it'll stay as cool as you with
all your stuff plugged in check it out
at the link below using parts from this
box and some other ones that we tracked
down with some help from EVGA we are
going to be building the most EVGA PC
ever I'm talking GPU sure of course but
also motherboard power supply Ram evg
made Ram yes yes they did and as we put
together our system we'll o be taking a
little trip down memory lane looking
through our care packages at some of the
ideas that EVGA brought to life over the
years the good and also the bad let's
start with what's in this box and look
at that I've got a special guest the
only other person who works here who's
old enough to remember all this stuff
maybe too
old now before we get started tell me
this as a certified Asus shill are you
allowed to wear EVGA shirts absolutely
all right let's do it I've been released
of my Asus contra track there that's
better now look they didn't have
everything in the archives to send us I
would have loved to get my hands on the
275 Co-op for example the very first GPU
physx accelerator combo card yes and the
very last one also very last one that
was not a very successful concept but we
do still have some really neat stuff now
not everything that EVGA you know
innovated was their own Innovation this
for example is a 79 50 gx2 this is two
gpus each on their own independent cards
with an SLI bridge in between them but
the Innovation was that they were crazy
enough to partner with Nvidia to do it I
believe it was them and Asus oh that's
right but not even Asus was crazy enough
to build one of these no their own dual
GPU this is the
460 to win to win get it to Twin oh twin
n it's two win okay the cool thing about
this is back then two mid-range cards in
SLI could be quite performance
competitive with a single higher-end one
and at a price that you know was blacka
480 yeah or you know sometimes even less
if you could get them on a deal the
issue is that as soon as you put the
engineering into building a combo
card yeah out the window yeah it all
went out the window this thing was about
$700 it's kind of no wonder in video
doesn't let the partners build stuff
like that anymore but still it was a lot
of fun yeah you talk to anyone from the
board partners and that's all they'll
talk about is how much more fun it was
to build cards back in the day uh how
about this one right here this would
have been something that would have been
pretty tough to compete with right 980
TI Kingpin do you remember what was
special about this guy I just know Vince
put a lot of work into it honestly
that's a great summary Vince lucido or
Kingpin worked with EVGA on this card to
dramatically increase the available
power to it from 250 watt stock to 450
WTS that involved adding additional
power connectors to it a full back plate
and of course this all copper drop dead
sexy cooling design do you want to pick
the next card ah I actually bought one
of these oh of course you did it's 9800
gx2 they had three different versions
overclocked super overclocked the SSC it
it EVGA yeah wait that is is just super
super overclocked yeah I know and then
they had the the KO there was a 25 mahz
difference on the core clock and the
memory clock as you went up the range
but the main reason I chose EVGA it was
the uh design cuz I actually wanted the
PNY XL R8 yeah yeah Asus had the uh top
card had the highest memory overclock
and it equaled on or or was right below
on on the core clock on probably had
like a cringey anime character and it
looked like the Ane character was in the
middle of an autopsy that was really fun
but I think we all know that builds
don't start with gpus they start with a
motherboard which conveniently EVGA also
has they've actually been in the
motherboard business for a long time
starting in 2005 and I guess if you
think about it it was a pretty natural
progression for them because a lot of
the same principles uh designing a board
with a good circuit layout and excellent
power and cooling management go into
both gpus and motherboards now in the
early days EVGA did less of the
engineering on their own one of their
most famous boards was simply an Nvidia
reference design for the 680i chipset
that EVGA put their label on but over
time EVGA got pretty darn Innovative
even launching Intel chips at
motherboards in 2008 once Nvidia left
the market there were a couple of
noteworthy Milestones that EVGA hit
first in fact they were the first to
make an XL ATX motherboard that allowed
four-way SLI with four dual Slot Cards
and this boy right here the EVGA
classified sr2 or super record 2 was I
don't know how to put this other than
utterly unique it allowed overclocking
on Dual Intel xon processors and you
guessed it the ability to install up to
four graphics cards in SLI
simultaneously it is is both taller and
wider than any motherboard standard that
existed for consumers at the time now
because of that we are not going to be
using it there are no cases these days
that will fit this thing but we do
intend to do a video with this retro
monster in the future so make sure
you're subscribed so you don't miss it
by the way speaking of retro our new
retro colorway screwdriver is a must
have for the Discerning retro Enthusiast
LTT store.com instead we've gone with
something a little more modern we've got
a z79 dark Kingpin this is an $800 board
for 12th to 14th gen Intel processors
with a 14 layer PCB 21 phase vrm support
for up to 64 gigs of ddr5 at 8,000 megat
transfers per second and this is really
cool they've managed to build in support
for PCI Express gen 5x 16 to either of
their 16x slots that means you can get
full performance out of a pcie Gen 5 GPU
that installed way down here that could
be important if say for example you're
going for an overclocking record and you
need more room for the Subzero cooling
apparatus you have up here can I just
say how amazing it is how well these
guys know their customers how cool is
this it's a bare PCB with kind of a
stripped down block diagram this is the
neatest swag I think I've ever seen
included with a product almost as neat
as the board
itself oh that reminds me here here's an
EVGA motherboard Innovation they were
the first to include right angle
connectors on their p67 FTW not
everything they did was particularly
Innovative about a decade ago they came
up with a number of superclocked and
super super clocked DDR3 and ddr4 memory
kits as far as I can tell with these the
product development process went
something like this but hey they were
Speedy at the time and competitively
priced unfortunately these are too
outdated for us to use in this system so
for Ram and actually storage now that I
come to think about it we've just gone
with third party options thankfully that
won't be necessary for our case these
are really hard to get your hands on
these days because as far as we can tell
anyone who owns them is holding on to
them for dear life evga's dg85 is part
of the dg8 series that came out in 2016
it was very well received like check
this out there's a lower compartment
where you put your power supply that's
pretty normal but what's this IO down
here including HDMI for your VR headset
that's super cool and that's just the
beginning you've seen interior Cable
Management what about exterior Cable
Management why would they need that you
ask so the entire back of the case can
have this clean look all hidden away by
this awesome
door man we got all kinds of stuff going
on here easily removable dust filter
trip fans in the front hey plof we said
that sr2 board wouldn't fit in this case
but I think it would will it fit hptx it
kind of looks like it we should build it
in there then uh yeah later later for
now we're building a real computer
anyone would actually want to use today
oo hello oo hey wo hey you know it was a
little on the pricey side at almost
$200 but for everything it's got going
on that feels like a deal what are you
thinking for the Clos Loop cooler top
mount yes but why did I call it a close
loop cooler instead of an all-in-one or
AI because that's what EVGA does meet
the CLC X they've actually done a couple
of different closed loop coolers but
this is their most recent it's available
in configurations with up to 3 120 mm
fans and compatible with all the latest
sockets there's not a whole lot more for
me to say about it so while we install
it why don't we do some EVGA history did
you know that EVGA originally stood for
e-commerce video graphics array they
were founded in 19 1999 by Andrew Han
and Keith Rochford and they were the
first company to make driver
installation seamless for gamers with
ADM or automatic driver management does
this thing have three bios chips on it
with a selector switch that is wild next
up is our power supply and this segment
is as much about evga's past as it is
about their future did you know that the
Supernova 850 and 750 G2 units were the
first to offer an eco mode switch which
is neat but but we're not using those
instead we've got a big beefy boy the
EVGA Supernova 1600
T2 it is fully modular 80 plus titanium
efficient and cost about
$500 evga's entry into the power supply
Market was marked by consistent quality
aggressive pricing and their trademark
strong post sales support from talking
to them today power supplies are very
much a part of their future going
forward and we wish them the best of
luck with
[Music]
that naturally we have gone with the
king of EVGA gpus the RTX 3090 TI for
the win three did you guys know that
aside from helping us get graphics cards
into the hands of Gamers at MSRP during
the Great crypto winter EVGA also had
their own Q system to try to deter
scalpers they also ran their stepup
program for years allowing anyone to
Simply trade in their card and pay the
difference if a newer model came out
within 90 days of purchase just to give
their customers a little peace of mind
and back in the day they used to offer
lifetime warranties on their gpus giving
their customers the assurance that they
would never have a problem with an EVGA
graphics card now I want to solve the
mystery of the giant piece of acrylic
with an EVGA logo on it I don't get this
man there's no obvious place that it
goes I'm EVGA is going to watch this and
go oh mine is wait I found it it's in
between what we both thought it is
inside the window but not at the back
just to kind of clean the place up a
little okay that looks really sharp last
piece here is the front panel but we are
far from the end of our adventure
because evj also makes peripherals we've
got the whole works today we got the
torque
torque sure X10 desk pad I've got the
X20 Mouse and plof here is unboxing
their z20 keyboard we also have their
xr1 Pro capture card the mouse is a fun
one I guess we got this from EVGA and it
didn't quite make the cut for shipping
to customers at any rate we've got
another first here this is the world's
first triple sensor Mouse so it's got a
Pixar 3335 Optical sensor which is
pretty normal but it has dual liftoff
distance detection sensors which is not
normal but I guess in theory allows you
to really fine-tune your liftoff
distance yeah you know when you go and
then you put it back down heck yeah now
I noticed something weird about this
keyboard cuz I know that years ago it
did come with this button but what
happened to it uh I am not sure yeah
well they don't have E3 anymore
so this is looking good now it's time
for the PS STS evga's sound card I'm
kidding we actually would have but we
couldn't get our hands on one of those
I'm talking instead about the
interview
1700 dual monitor system my
friends you could fit so many Global
patents in this bad boy for real though
14 unfortunately this product kind of
sunk their monitor line it was
Innovative sure but they say that the
downturn in the Market in 2008 and 2009
was just terrible timing for it to
launch I think it had other problems
like say for example that this is
clearly a business forward product from
a company that up until then had been
almost entirely focused on Gamers but to
me it was more about the unnecessary of
it I mean why buy two 17in TN monitors
when you can buy one dual 17in TN
monitor there was cool stuff though and
integrated 1.3 megapixel webcam which
could swivel a built-in microphone three
usba a ports I mean if they had launched
this thing right in the start of the
covid pandemic boom they would have
nailed it they got the wrong Global
crisis yet another problem is that it
used a connector that you've probably
never heard of DMS 59 or dual monitor
solution 59 pins I love engineer names
count them count those pins no the
monitors ran at 1440 by 900 each or wxga
plus which is not to be confused with
wxga the other wxga W sxg or wxga plus
don't you miss when we named monitor
resolutions like that it was great it
makes full HD UHD QHD seemed downright
sensible anyway none of that was the big
feature the big
feature was this whoa want to show the
client what you're working on
pry it's pretty cool compared to today
these monitors aside from being TN are
not great with a 500 to1 contrast ratio
yes that is hundreds 220 nit Peak
brightness and 8 millisecond pixel
response times but this thing would have
been pretty sick for office use back in
the day except that affordable larger
panels were like kind of common place
and 17 in was kind of bad yeah it's an
all- inone solution
so that I can what take it with
me yeah look at that it's great why walk
away we got this all we need is two
display port to DVI adapters oh wow that
is we set powered on we've spent so much
time talking about evga's awesome design
this interview logo not their finest
work I don't think this mouse works oh
my God this does not illuminate okay
hold on let's get a mouse be stock more
like dead dead St have you guys got the
interview already yeah okay that's great
cuz I brought a
vampire oh my God Interview with the
Vampire wow that looks like garbage
that's TN panel from 20 what 2009 one of
the strats back in the day you guys was
to put a glossy surface on the screen to
kind of try and uh boost the perceived
contrast and Clarity it didn't work okay
what games are we playing uh whatever
you want Halo Counterstrike nice it's
you know what it's not 60 HZ Linus it's
better than 60 HZ wow that motion blur
ghosting Trail it looks like I have most
pointer Trails on it's pretty bad day
check the check display settings though
66350 this is it guys is ready this For
Better or For Worse this rig is as EVGA
as any rig can be it's dead quiet hey
yeah should we get it closed up it looks
amazing close it let's close it it is a
beautiful case hey you going to peel one
side I was going to wait for the sr2
build yeah we kind of have to do wait
for the sr2 build do the inside do the
inside PE all right there it's at least
a little bit more clear we're going to
see it in all of its Glory next time
there we go EVGA gamer okay here we go
oh my goodness this is the worst thing
ever it's
playable this monitor is I don't
remember Badness like this technically
you're terorist look I can't tell on
this monitor blaming the peripherals
well I mean a little bit Yeah that's
what a real Gamer does look that's my
blood on the wall no I'm going to win if
you get a kill I I couldn't even see my
Crosshair dude I couldn't even see it
wow it's pretty
bad come on I didn't hit him at all no
no I got this I'm going to get a kill
all right one kill oh no I have the bomb
okay well yeah well follow your team
follow your team yeah no just toss it to
your teammate just rush B Rush B Rush B
well what they're not rushing B you rush
you said follow the damn team what is
this how did that not kill him you were
aiming on his left shoulder his right
camera left camera left I could see it
from here that was his head I mean if it
was his head he' be
dead right I brought up float plane cuz
we were talking about how you could
stream on here float plane great
streaming quality great show it's got a
webcam right there okay wouldn't used
that In fairness to me this is pretty
bad huh it's pretty bad like remember
when 40 milliseconds of input was a
thing I know this feels really rough so
floaty pretty yeah right I can tell you
have no control right now oh it's so bad
youing at his shoulder I was I was I can
admit when I was aiming at the wrong
spot this sucks it's so hard okay here
Colton you want to turn what what are we
doing you got to try to get one kill
what do you mean I got to try to get one
kill easy what are you talking about the
challenge is over when you get one kill
oh what is happened hold on no you're
dead you're
dead he doesn't even know he's
spectating the monitor is called the
interview do you get the joke now while
he's wearing a cape yeah the joke is
that you should probably do
some I didn't even realize what I was
gaming on what what is
this why yeah but what if I wanted to
watch the game Bo does it even flip it
did that was really good okay that's
pretty cool that was really good if you
manage to put a bullet on target you'll
be ahead of me in play no he did that
seems like a really high refresh rate uh
good uh gaming yeah device 66 Hertz 6
66 I got one head shot W no yeah boom
head shot
another that's a tall order it was a
nice shot though you could barely see
his head that was pretty good now that
some time has passed we've asked EVGA
hey why did you guys end your
partnership with Nvidia and stop making
graphics cards in general and after some
PR talk it basically boiled down to the
market being til tilted toward the chip
manufacturers and away from the addin
board Partners meaning that their
margins were razor thin and it just
wasn't worth it anymore it also seemed
like they weren't happy with chip
manufacturer restrictions that limited
their ability to innovate which as you
guys saw earlier was a big part of what
EVGA was about nor were they happy with
how expensive graphics cards a product
meant for fun primarily were getting
they said that Nvidia has strong
technology and they wish them all the
best in their future endeavors which
apparently is all AI all the time now so
take that as you will for now we
sincerely wish EVGA the best they didn't
sponsor this video or anything and if
I'm being honest I don't know if they're
going to be around to honor their
legendary 10year warranties their
product lineup has shrunk and shrunk and
shrunk down to it seems like they're
going to be quite focused on power
supplies going forward but hey we've
still got a lot of fond memories and
this was a lot of fun to do you'll find
links to some of their products in the
video description below um and you'll
also find the link to today's sponsor
guardio it's a shame we live in a world
where even popular Tech YouTubers can be
victims to hackers and scammers guardio
has both a web app and a mobile app to
keep you safe online no matter how you
browse if you're opening an email that
maybe you shouldn't be guardio is there
to let you know that something got past
your spam filter and they can even do
this with SMS messages that means no
more Banks texting you telling you to
open your account so they can make a
totally real deposit guardi also let you
know in real time if your data is
compromised so you can handle it
immediately plus they Shield you from
fishing attempts so you don't end up
like some unnamed popular Tech YouTube
channels plus you get even more features
like malware blocking pop-up elimination
fraudulent website protection and you
can use it with up to five users at no
extra cost so Empower your online
browsing today with guardio at the link
down below if you guys enjoyed this
video make sure to check out that quad
FX video that I did I mention it earlier
I don't know if I ended up mentioning it
whatever it's a crazy video go go watch
it Gary helped